This is, they call it now, Budget Host Motel.
This was Rosner's Motel.
When I first moved down here after I left St.
Louis in 1968, I decided when I quit collecting fauna that I also had to change my life.
I didn't want to be an academician.
I didn't go into academics.
I was going to be a teacher, and I veered away.
I knew I wanted to be a writer by that time, severely.
And I knew if I were going to be a writer, I had to educate myself in a different way than I had been educated for seven years of college.
I, by that time, had two master's degrees, one in English, one in creative writing.
And I had a BA from Yale, and I'd had enough education.
So I came down to Farmington, Missouri, and put myself in a factory.
And I ran a factory for 15 years where we sewed them.
A mineral area college.
And I taught at that little college, that junior college.
A mineral area?
A mineral area junior college.
I taught creative writing and short fiction there to give back something to the community.
The cost to get in my classes was $18 a semester.
That school does more for this community.
They would have no higher education otherwise.
People would have none.
Most people don't go to college from here.
So I came down to this area.
I stayed in that motel, Rosner's Motel, for six months until I finally found a home down here in Farmington.
And it was in Farmington in 1968 when I came down here that I went into the factory.
I had to unlearn after the bees.
And what I did, I wanted to change my life.
I wanted to learn what normal people are all about, people who have to work for a living.
so to speak.
People go to work with a brown bag for lunch.
I'm suggesting that the kinds of people who ultimately wouldn't take my collection into the universities were the same arrogant people who had been teaching me for years.
And those arrogant people believe that the ivory tower is what makes America's economy work and America's whole social existence function.
And quite frankly, it is the narrowest of worlds.
And it is inbred, it's incestuous, and I still have a real hang-up about it.
Now, paradoxically, I've written nine scholarly books.
Because that's another part of the challenge in me, and we'll get to that, too.
Let's go back to the way this ended on the other side.
They got the collection, they made me curator.
That's the last thing we did.
They made me curator, for which they pay me a salary for 20 years.
We tried to create it.
It started in 88?
Yes.
We tried to create an innovative way by which they could acquire the collection.
Did you put a value on it, kind of an arbitrary value on it?
Yes, the value had been put on it that wasn't arbitrary.
We brought in Ralph Zipper, a very fine California book dealer, his associate, Ralph Moskowitz.
Larry Moskowitz.
The two of them spent three days here on the tab of the university.
Southeast Missouri State paid them a considerable sum to do an official appraisal.
The appraisal came out at $3,600,000.
That was very low.
And that was fine.
The collection is probably worth $10 million in today's market.
You think if you were to consign this to South Visa Christie's, God forbid, but... I wouldn't have brought $3 million, no.
It would have done better than that.
It would have done worse than that.
It would have done about $2 million.
No, I just think that the collection has that value now.
No, because the book market is a small market.
It would have grunted the market.
We haven't even been able to sell off all of Carl Peterson's collection, and it wasn't very good.
It was quantitative in bulk.
The best piece is sold and all the rest of it's going to sit around.
No, I think it would have brought about $2 million.
But it was valued at $3.6 million.
So the university came up with all kinds of innovative ways by which they could acquire it.
I gave a lot of it, but they still had to acquire some of it.
And they did it in part by making me a curator and making me a salaried member of the university for 20 years.
So that was part of it.
It wasn't just an out-and-out donation.
And was there a cash?
Yes, there was a cash remuneration for it.
My father, who has also put in money to the collection over the years, he gave away a portion of it.
He and I both gave away the equivalent.
of about two and a half million dollars worth of the collection.
Oh, really?
Now you say your father put mine.
I didn't know this.
Well, I can only tell you that he helped fund it as I built it over the years.
What was his attitude to it?
He wasn't helping.
It was real grudging and reluctant.
I mean, did he think that we're indulging the obsession of my son?
Oh, yeah.
And he really got angry.
Are you an only child?
No, I'm not.
They're four other children.
But he got very angry with that, and yet he wouldn't.
He would do that.
Where are you in the... I'm the oldest.
You're the oldest.
I could at times persuade him to abet my passion.
Well, for instance, would you go to him and say, look, Dad, I need help on this?
Yeah, I would do that, and sometimes I'd really have to beg, and sometimes it was a little easier.
But he always did it reluctantly because he really didn't believe in it.
He just didn't believe in it at all.
He didn't think Falker was important.
He is a very pragmatic businessman.
Why did he do it then?
I guess he did it because I worked hard enough at tugging at him.
Was he indulging you, do you think?
Oh yeah, I'm sure he was indulging me.
He certainly believed that himself anyway.
I always tried to persuade him that what I was doing to get to his part was a great investment.
Although I myself knew I never did it as an investment.
But I was just about...
to suggest that as a businessman, he thought, well... He thought it was a weak investment.
We're not going to... He thought it was a non-existent investment.
In other words, he probably thought he would lose money on it.
Of course.
He thought it was perfectly wrong because to him, a significant investment is one that is in stocks or one that is in something that yields an immediate negotiable amount of money.
For the record, can you tell me what your father's business...
Yes, he was a manufacturer of men's clothing.
The factory that I'll show you down here in Farmington real briefly was the company that I worked for.
The company is built well.
It ultimately was sold to Interco, which is a large conglomerate in St.
Louis International.
It's a very well-known product.
Wonderful.
We make John Alexander slacks.
We make Benchley and Taylor's Bench were some of our brands.
Wonderful things.
Rough Rider.
Our company is wonderful.
My dad started it in 1929 in the year of the Depression.
It now is owned by Hart & Marks.
Hart & Marks.
Really?
And it is a wonderful clothing company in this country.
and it's one of the few that survived.
The name of the company was?
Biltwell.
B-I-L-T-W-E-L-L.
I worked for Biltwell for 18 years.
I wanted to work with my father.
Did your father expect me?
And yet I didn't want to work near him because he was too demanding.
He was overbearing.
Do you think maybe that your father really wanted you to come into the business?
Yes, I think he did.
Maybe this was one way to placate you by indulging this obsession?
No, not at all.
But I think he did want me to come into the business.
And I think that he always felt that I have been indulgent and irresponsible.
And it's always been a real source of discomfort for me.
And it's created a great deal of tension.
And I've always been a person who has acted upon his own beliefs.
And I've worked on my own intuitions.
And so that I always did go against his grain.
And yet he did aid and abet me quite often.
How much better do you think you put into the collection?
I put in, between my father and I, we put in about $600,000.
How much did your father put in, do you think?
I would say that he put in half of that.
Geez.
Over the years.
Wow.
But you know, over the years, that really isn't very much money.
If you divide $600,000 by 30 years, what do you have?
I don't know.
What do you have?
$50,000?
No.
No no whatever. Well you can figure it out when you do your mathematics. But that isn't a whole lot of money over the years. That's not the amount but. What it is is what it is is i did get him to it's a loving father. Well it was a nice father and he did and my mother was behind it. If it hadn't been for my mother my father wouldn't have done it. You see I've asked why did Ather Houghton for instance uh finally sell up and uh I would love to talk to Ather Houghton but he died of course, and some people suggest that everybody in the family thought he was crazy buying this stuff in the first place.
And he says, I'll show the sons of bitches, you know, that this is worth some money.
And maybe he lost interest in it, too.
But he did divest himself of that collection as a fairly young man.
I always wanted to prove to my father that what I had done was not only significant, but responsible.
He always felt that what I had done, my activities were irresponsible, that that was spendthrift, that it was wasteful.
And it always annoyed me.
And to this day, I have a lot of problems with that.
And I don't want you to publish that.
OK.
Well, what?
Oh, that notion.
Let's be specific about what you don't want me to use.
I don't want you to use that I have a lot of problems with that.
I'm going to show you the house that I lived in.
This is very pretty where we are, by the way.
This is 628 West Columbia.
This is where I live.
Boy, I see all the beautiful houses are up for sale now.
It's real sad.
They put a state prison down at the end of the street.
That blew it away, man.
But here's where I raised my little family in this beautiful Victorian home.
This is the heartland of America.
It is, and I've got a book about Farmington called 628 West Columbia.
That's the beauty.
This is 628 West Columbia?
Yeah.
Is this still in the family?
No, I sold it about four years ago now.
Three years ago.
I hated doing that.
My wife and I hated it.
Beautiful.
Boy, that's gorgeous.
We loved living here.
Just let me shut this up for a second.
It was real pastoral.
What I warred against, or warred with,
When I was young, when I was at Washington U. W-A-R-R-E-D.
I'm making a verb out of that.
That's my typist.
I've seen it at the factory where I work now that I'm here.
The problem I had as a young man was I had to pull, twin pulls.
One was that on the one hand, my dad had sent me to Yale, and I began becoming a sensitive young man.
I began to become sensitive to aesthetics, to literature, to the humanities.
And here this man who had never gone to college,
who had become a multi-millionaire as a businessman, who was really brilliant as a businessman, had sent his son, and to his consternation, when I arrived back home, discovered that the young boy he'd sent away to college really didn't have an interest in that business at all.
And this is the factory where I worked, and I worked alongside up to 300 people who worked in there.
And I was the assistant manager, and then I branched out, and I created a whole business out of that of Slack Outlets.
I created my own multi-million dollar business from nothing out of there.
I ended up with seven outlet stores at one time before factory outlets were even in vogue.
I created the concept almost.
There were a few, but I virtually created the concept, along with other people at that time, of the factory outlet store.
And I won't tell you about that story now, but it's a real interesting story about me and my dad.
What were the names of the stores?
We call it the Slack Outlet.
And it had branches in all the little heartland towns where we didn't do business, where Biltwell didn't have mainline businesses.
And believe it or not, I had created a multi-million dollar business.
This is a little town that was real comfortable for me.
I'll show you my little office.
I had a writing office downtown here.
I loved going in the cafe and writing poems about all the townsfolk and all the... Yeah, and that's where my office was, up there, where the railing is, where the stretch doors are.
Oh, and the glass window.
$80 a month for three big rooms up there.
It was wonderful.
The building was from the 1890s.
And I was real comfortable living in this town, and as an artist, it helped me.
But let me tell you what happened, Nick.
It was real interesting to me.
I was, as a young man, when I came back from Yale, I had all these notions, these literary notions.
I came back with a book collection.
I was imbued with literature.
Yale had done a wonderful number on me.
I was imbued with American studies.
I loved Americana.
So I came back, and I went into Washington U, as I told you.
And I started in the business school for the first semester, and I guess my dad was real pleased about that, only I found it towards me.
So after a semester, I went over to the English school, and I enrolled, and I stayed there for three years.
And I took a master's in English, and I began writing.
And I wrote prose, lots of prose then, and a little poetry.
And then I went up to San Francisco State, and I took a creative writing degree.
But what happened at Washington U that changed my whole world was after I wrote my master's thesis on William Faulkner on three of the novels, and I intended to expand it into a PhD dissertation into 10 chapters.
I wrote three chapters in the books down there in the collection now.
The people at Washington U said, oh, Mr. Brodsky, this is obvious.
It's obvious from your thesis that you know you're Faulkner, and they gave me a three-hour exam, but don't bother to apply here for your PhD because you haven't followed the rules.
You haven't given us any footnotes.
You haven't followed style.
I said, yes, this is a very fine thesis.
It was original.
I'd read everything you could read on Faulkner criticism at the time.
Everything.
But I hadn't footnoted anything because I hadn't used it.
I created my own thesis.
And it was innovative.
And why that happened was I later knew I was an artist.
I didn't want to repeat.
I wanted to make something new.
The book you read of mine, William Faulkner Life Glimpses, I promise you was all new.
And most of the quotations in there or the references in there are to prime material or to my own work.
They said, don't bother to apply here.
It was so shocking and so traumatic to me.
I thought, well, fuck them.
This is academia.
I don't need it.
And it was the greatest thing that happened to me, because then I went out to San Francisco State, and I studied for a year, and I knew it was a writer I was going to be.
So I went down.
I left San Francisco.
I got my first job at Miami in Coconut Grove at a junior college.
I went down there.
I stayed three days for the introductory material, and I said, oh, God, this isn't for me.
So I called my dad.
I said, Dad, you just bought a new factory in southeast Missouri in Farmington.
Could I go down there?
Could I work there?
He said, what?
I said, yeah, I'd like to.
And I'm sure he said, yeah, that's fine.
And I knew that pleased him because then he thought, ah, my son's finally coming back to this business.
What I really had in mind was I wanted to get away from academia.
I wanted to be a writer.
And I knew I wasn't going to write well writing the kinds of things I was writing because they were too academic.
They were like the poetry of Anthony Hecht.
They were like the poetry of Don Finkel.
They were like all the academic poetry that James Merrill
It was so abstruse and it was so academic that it had no heart in it.
I didn't know enough.
And I don't believe those people know enough about life either.
I think the stuff is so interned and narrow.
Even Nemirov.
Nemirov has spent all his life virtually in academia.
He's out here, isn't he?
He's been at Washington U. He's just retiring.
I don't think people like that...
can give us responsible art, finally.
I think we're going to be responsible.
I think to be responsible, you have to have lived enough life and have had enough experience so that the wisdom that you attempt to incorporate in your art has some meaning for other people.
Now, how was I going to write writing that the common man could understand?
A lot of people can read Robert Frost,
And yet he's deep.
He can be deep.
I wanted to write the kind of writing that people could read and at the same time could have some humanity to it.
So I put myself in this factory.
And at the time I put myself in the factory, I also quit collecting Faulkner because that was part of that whole need of mine to get away from academia.
So I began to live life.
I would visit the factory hands homes.
I'd have dinner.
They'd invite me over.
I would go to their weddings.
Things like that.
The factory hands.
That's almost the southern phrase, isn't it?
I guess it is.
I told you we're more southern here than you'd ever imagined.
Let me tell you what else I mean.
I've not heard that expression.
I'm from a mill town in Lowell, Massachusetts.
I moved here.
In 68, and it wasn't until 76 that I drove down to Oxford, or 75, really.
I drove down to 75 with my wife, Jan.
I had no idea how close we were to Faulkner's mythical south.
But if you drove out of here, and I did it many times, from Farmington to Oxford is 333 miles, just as we're driving right now.
You drive across here to 55, down 55.
to 32 and then on into Oxford.
333 miles from here, about seven hours.
That's close.
Close.
I must have done it 100 times over the last, since 76.
He's the main man for you, though.
He was the main man.
He still is the one I most admire as a fictionist.
I take that back.
I also admire just about on the same level Franz Kafka.
The ones I most admire are John Milton.
William Wordsworth, and Walt Whitman.
These are, to me, the three absolutely quintessential poets that have had an effect on me.
Many, many people have had an effect on my writing, and yet my writing has my voice in it.
Faulkner does not come through in my writing.
My syntax is my own.
It's not Faulknerian.
My eloquence, my poetry does derive from Faulkner to this extent that people have asked me, well, what influence did Faulkner have on you?
I already told you.
He influenced me negatively with the novels.
So I quit writing them and I never published them.
Negatively?
In terms of being derivative.
That you couldn't do it.
I could only write Faulknerian clothes.
Yeah.
But Faulkner at his best... Well, you could only attempt Faulknerian clothes.
Attempt it, is right.
And even it came out awkward, of course.
But even if it had been good, any unique, authentic artist knows that that is your death knell.
You can't be derivative.
If you sound echoic, you're in trouble.
There's only one Babe Ruth.
Absolutely.
And there's only one Milton.
And there's only one Hemingway.
And all the rest become parodic.
And there's only one Faulkner.
And you can tell right away when someone... P-A-R-O-D-I-C.
William Styron, at his best, was both at his worst.
And it's probably why he'll never be brilliant like Faulkner.
Because that is very fast.
He was also Faulknerian.
I think that's why it takes him 10 or 12 years to write a book.
And I think that's why he fell into this horrible depression.
Well, that depression, too.
Yeah, and to get your most popular book as a little book on depression is kind of a drag.
That's amazing, isn't it?
Yeah, it's poor.
Real poor.
But, okay, to come back to all that, that's all by way of telling you that I did have a real pull in growing up.
My dad set a wonderful example of being a very pragmatic
businessman, very frugal, very hard working, worked 14 hours a day, a workaholic. I grew up under his aura within his aura and so I was programmed without knowing it to be myself a kind of a workaholic but I was not programmed to be a money-making machine and my dad has been a money-making machine. I got too much aesthetics
somehow imbued in me.
It started at Yale.
It probably started at Country Day.
I had a wonderful education, and a lot of it was humanities-oriented.
You're not a money-making machine, but... I do, but I choose not to push it.
But we should also keep in mind the fact that you are blessed with being
Solve it.
Versatile.
I've made myself versatile.
I wasn't an academic because I didn't choose to be.
And I wasn't a pure businessman because I didn't choose to be.
I am a difficult hybrid.
But I mean, there is some family wealth involved too, isn't there?
No, there isn't much family wealth involved.
No, there's not.
Most of that won't come to me.
Matter of fact, I doubt any of it will come to me.
I have taken my stand.
And my stand is that I'm an individual.
And I really don't want to get into all that.
Don't mind me for asking.
That's fine.
But how it relates to the collecting was that it also created... I'm a very hybrid and unique.
I'm an unorthodox character.
Let's put it that way.
So that even if I were going to collect books, it wasn't going to be done orthodoxly.
I wasn't going to buy out a book dealer's catalog.
I wasn't going to go schmutz around in book dealer's shops because that bores the shit out of me.
It always did.
And the only reason that question, by the way, to go back, the only reason why it's relevant is because there are those who could suggest that L.D.
is able to put this collection together because he comes from a very wealthy family.
And I'm going to now try to redress that.
I'm going to suggest that over all those years,
$600,000 is not a lot of money to build a $10 million collection.
I think that's spectacular.
And most of it was put together.
A lot of it was done through trading.
that I did with other people.
We're going to develop this in the writing, but these are questions that have to be addressed.
I did not.
Let me go on record as stating categorically, and then you can open it up later.
This collection would never have got put together had it been requiring money to do it.
That's great.
I love that.
No way.
It wouldn't even have come close because all the wonderful materials that are in this collection each came from a cluster, a family cluster.
And a family cluster each time that came to me came to me out of respect for me and for what I had done with the collection and for what I was doing with my writing about the collection.
And each time the materials came to me from people who respected the fact that I wasn't going to convert their materials into a capital gains.
Now that's right online.
I don't want to be Freudian, but do you think that maybe you're trying to prove to your father?
Fucking A, yes.
No doubt about it.
I tried to prove to him for so many years that what I was doing wasn't irresponsible.
But until five or six years ago, when he could easily read about Faulkner's reputation in the literary stock market, he would always belabor the fact that what I was doing was irresponsible.
And it really did anguish me.
And it created great tension.
And he did the same thing with my writing.
And so that's been a real source of tension.
And one of the reasons why I was a great collector
is the same reason why I'm a great writer.
I'm driven by an enormous sense of conflicted tension that I'm able to harness and use as productive, creative energy in developing an art that Americans have never had.
My work is so fucking powerful, just like my collecting was powerful.
It's the Babe Ruth of collecting.
And that's not arrogant.
That is the way it is.
I am driven by a massive force, and a lot of that force, Freudianly speaking, may indeed have come from the fact that I am driven now no longer because I realized years ago I was never going to get his approval, which is a casebook kind of a cliché term, but I wanted his approval as a young man.
He once made a comment to me.
He said, I'm sorry I ever sent you to Yale.
I hated hearing that.
It wasn't facetious.
That was early on when I'd come back and he saw that I was tending toward an artist.
Well, that's what happens when you send kids off to liberal arts schools.
Well, that's right.
I mean, I went to Bates College up in Maine, which is just the greatest experience of my life, you know?
Because life has just been a continuation of a liberal arts education for me.
Yes, it has.
I see what you do.
I admire it.
Well, I mean, it's just wonderful.
And isn't it responsible, though?
You've made a livelihood out of it.
Would your dad tell you you're irresponsible?
No.
Well, mine would tell me that.
Well, I resent it.
And a lot of what I work on... Well, is your father still alive?
Yes, he is.
He's 81, and he's still very powerful.
Okay.
And he still works very hard, and he's still very productive.
Okay, but... He still puts in a 12-hour workday.
So he still owns a business, then?
He doesn't own that business, but he has large holdings.
He's a very wealthy man.
Okay.
My... I just throw this out.
Maybe another factor...
not just the arrogance at Yale or at Washington, but also the fact that the Brodsky Collection is here, it may be a validation
That's kind of close to home.
Nothing seemed to validate what I did for him.
Leave that unequivocal.
Really?
And that remains to this day.
And that's a real source of anguishment.
And finally, it's never stopped me from going ahead and doing it.
He always tried to say, no more books.
Don't buy any more books.
I'm not going to loan you any more money.
No more.
You are stupid.
You shouldn't be doing any of that.
You should be saving your money, etc., etc.
This is a great interview, by the way.
We've done a lot.
This is a very good point.
Well, it's all interesting shit, too, Nick, but you're dealing with a character who's, I guess, kind of interesting, finally.
Is that a huck?
Yeah.
And, you know, I say a character because one of the things I do as an artist, I detach from L.D.
Brodsky.
That's why some of the poetry is so powerful.
I'm going to show you some of it.
I write about these weird characters that certainly are composites of me and other people.
This is a beautiful countryside, by the way.
I love it.
Pardon me for just looking around.
I've written more poems about this area right here.
I've got one in Mississippi Vistas where the character is driving from Farmington to St.
Genevieve and then down to Oxford.
Where are we now?
What are we on?
We're on Highway 32.
going from Farmington to Highway 55 that we never should have got off.
Yeah, but this is pretty.
Oh, and in the fall.
I wouldn't miss this.
A week from now, it would really be exciting.
It's just starting to turn.
So what kind of metaphors run through your mind?
What kind of imagery?
I'm going to show you the poems as we drive through here.
Well, unfortunately, I'm talking with you too much, but I've written about the cows and the beautiful turning of the trees.
and the mesentery-like highway that leaves us.
And I would leave, the character would leave early from Farmington and head toward his mecca, Oxford.
And I'll show you Mississippi Vistas, which is a testimony to so many trips there.
Oxford is your mecca.
Well, it has been.
It's not anymore, I think.
In the last five years, I've brought myself to my own mecca.
I mean, you mentioned Milton, Wordsworth, and Whitman.
I mean, so is Camden, New Jersey a mecca?
Is London a mecca?
Only in the book.
Is the Wordsworth country, you know?
Good questions.
And I was able to travel to them just by going to the books.
And now that's all I do with Faulkner.
I haven't been to Oxford in three years.
I had to stop it at some point.
I had to say, enough Faulkner.
Now Brodsky, for the rest of his life, he's going into the final lap.
At about age 47, I said, OK, Brodsky, you've got about 20 years of burn on you.
And now all the writing you've done for 25 years must be harvested.
I created a company, Timeless Press, Poetry and Sight and Sound.
It's now two and a half years old, and we're beginning to make a mark.
It's really class A stuff.
My newest book, Mississippi Vistas, is coming out with an endorsement from Robert Penn Warren Client, Brooks and Malcolm Cowling.
I just had a book endorsed by Elie Wiesel, a book of Holocaust poems.
We're doing very, very beautiful things, and we're getting all kinds of acclaim.
William Stafford, I believe, is going to send us a manuscript now that I'm going to be publishing.
There's a wonderful writer named Antler.
So we're not just publishing LD West?
Not just LD.
We're publishing William Hayen.
We're publishing two other artists, too.
But I've done some real innovative things with Timeless Press, so it's a business sense to me.
Well, was Timeless created to publish the poetry, primarily of Louis Daniel Budd?
Yes, it was.
But there's so much business acumen that I've brought to it that I know full well that the only way that can be done
is by creating an authentic, very important company that can publish other people as well.
And I think you have to understand, too, that the way poetry is marketed today is pure.
It's the pits.
I'm going to show you how to market poetry.
Look at this.
I've got a package here on a wanky road.
Don't worry about it.
Well, I'll show you later.
Keep me off that subject of timeless right now.
Just to come back to the tension, the tension always drove that collection.
At a certain point, I really did get to the point where I wanted to outdo Carl Peters.
In the beginning, I think in the beginning, I just thought, Jesus, if someone could do that, then someone else could do that.
I think that was probably the first impulse.
So let's break it apart.
It probably is worth doing.
I think that...
Not long into that endeavor, after I met Vance, and then after I realized that I could travel all over the country and meet people, and I met tens and tens of people, each of whom had Faulkner artifacts, and each of whom thought he or she had the entire biography of Faulkner in his or her little zeitgeist.
In other words, each of the people I met thought they knew Faulkner.
What it turned out to be was that each one knew a little bit about a very elusive and evasive man, Faulkner.
So where they thought they knew all about him, what was so fascinating to me, I'd go to visit one family or one person.
They'd say, oh yeah, here's how Bill Faulkner was, and this is Bill, and this is the way he was.
I'd go to someone else and they'd say, oh, Bill was this way, and sometimes it would conflict, but sometimes it would just add to the story.
Nobody knew Faulkner.
Faulkner was real private, so each of the people that he knew knew a little piece of him.
I went around piecing together the pieces so that I could not only bring together the artifacts, and that was wonderful, but then I could bring back enough stories to make William Faulkner life glimpses, a biography that, though not large, I'd like to hope is real insightful.
I think I got in touch with Faulkner, the man.
I'd like to think I may have, I'm going to leave this modest, may have better than anybody who has written about falsehoods.
I'd like to hope that that little book stays around and is read by students, because even though it's not massive like Fred Carl's book, and not massive like Blotner's, and even though it is not whatever, it is not what I call a calendared biography.
It is not a womb-to-tomb biography.
It's an innovative biography, because it's the only way an innovative man, writer, is going to write.
And that is innovatively.
So it's a different kind of a biography.
But it is the result of my having made friends with enough people that I went out to talk with, interview, acquire artifacts from, to create what I hope is a real, authentic biography of a man.
So that's what I did in collecting.
I wasn't really collecting books, and I think I told you that.
I didn't consider myself a book collector.
I said I'm a Faulkner collector.
And what I really think I believe, Nick, is that what I've collected has been a bunch of lives.
I intimately collected Vance Boach and his wife Shirley, if you will, through correspondence, through my friendship, through our kindness.
I'll show you the poem.
You'll love the poem.
I've written about the cow in the water hole going over to St.
Jen in my Mississippi Vistas book.
I'll show you that when we get home.
As a matter of fact, I'm going to pick it up this morning.
I'm giving you an awful lot of hot air, more than I've given anyone in years, and I hope I'm not giving you too much.
You can sort out what you do.
We can also make a good chapter in my book from this shit because I'm not going to spew it again to anybody.
If you do these tapes with me, I'd love it.
And then you know what you'll do?
Have you talked about the father stuff to anybody?
No, I haven't.
If you're not on voice in here, what we'll do when we take the interviews, you and I will work on them.
You'll interpolate.
You know what I'm saying?
Because that's how I do it.
I think a few of my... I'm not here to talk, but... Do the chapter with me, though.
In the piece, you'll do a lot of talking.
You'll write it in, you know?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, it'll be fun.
I've given you a lot of real personal stuff, and I would let you use it if you go over it with me, because it's real tender, and I'm having a bad problem with it right now.
It's terribly tender.
I've had some terrible problems.
I've loved my father, and yet I've grown up with this horrible ambiguity, if you will, or in the wrong word, ambivalence, terrible ambivalences over all these years.
And it's been real tough for me, and it's now become terribly difficult in my personal life.
I hold myself together real well.
I'm very much of a, I think, an extremely unorthodox person.
Not ethically, but just in my sense of wanting to be self-reliant, of wanting to do things creatively and innovatively.
All my poems are innovative.
My lifestyle is innovative.
I don't think I've ever tried to harm anybody.
I've tried to
be caring toward other people.
I'm real giving and caring.
My poetry is all about other people.
I love people.
The reason I gave this collection to Missouri, to the world, it gave the damn thing.
I'm still young enough, I could have kept it for years.
I didn't want it.
It didn't belong to me after a certain point.
It got too good, too big.
It belonged to all of us.
Now, my poetry comes from the same source of motivation.
My art,
is for you and for other people.
And I fully intend for it to get out there for you to at least pass a judgment.
You can then say, I don't want this.
Fine.
I don't think this is good enough or it doesn't move me.
But I'm going to put it out there for you to make a judgment.
And I'm working diligently at it just as I did with the Faulkner.
I was driven.
Once I met Broach, Vance Broach, and once I knew what Carl had done, then I began to try to formulate in my own mind
how I wanted to do it myself.
And basically, I parted ways with Carl Peterson, because what I began to understand about Carl and all the other collectors I met was that they really were collecting for themselves.
that it was a selfish indulgence in most cases, and at best it wasn't an indulgence, but that the guiding principle behind most of the collecting I saw going on was, if you will, greed.
Now, I don't want to be too general.
There were exceptions to that.
I have to believe that just about everybody at some level collects for themselves.
I got to the point after the early years where I wasn't collecting for myself.
That's what made this collection great.
It was the point in which... You were looking ahead to the... Well, let me tell you what happened.
In 1978, something great happened.
And that is that a fellow named Robert Hamblin, who taught at Southeast Missouri State University, who had just two years before that, ten years belatedly, received his dissertation from Ole Miss on Faulkner.
What's this stuff growing?
That is Milo.
Yeah, it looks like corn.
It makes sorghum and stuff, and it's fed to cattle anyway.
Go ahead.
It's a real neat-looking plant.
It looks a little like corn, except its top part.
This is gorgeous country.
I'm not going to tell you about it, except I'm going to fill you in.
No, I'm just taking a few notes.
You're getting me to gas here.
I haven't gassed in years.
It must be all coming out today.
The thing is, in 1978, Bob Hamlin called me.
He had been two years away from having received his dissertation ten years after the fact.
He graduated from Ole Miss in 66.
Finished his dissertation in 76.
Had nothing to do.
It was teaching at school.
A kid came down to take a summer class of his who taught in Farmington High School.
He said, oh, I know a man in Farmington who has a wonderful collection of Faulkner.
He'd known me.
Bob Hamlin took note of that and called me.
One night, he said, I teach at the Southeast.
I hear you have a collection.
I love Faulkner.
I did my dissertation.
I'd sure like to meet you.
I said, Mr. Hamlin, come on up.
So one day we met.
I took him to the bank.
I showed him the stuff.
He went crazy.
That, in a glib way, started a relationship, an association, a collaboration that Bob and I have maintained strongly now for going on 12 years.
And it has been just sensational.
We did our first book after that in 1979.
We did an exhibit at Southeast Missouri State, and Virginia published a book from it.
He wrote something in one of your catalogs, I think.
OK, well, let me tell you.
He gave me the third insight.
Peterson gave me the first one.
Vance Broach and Blotner's book gave me the second strong insight.
The third one came from Bob Hamlin.
Bob came up and he said, my God, these beautiful things.
I've only seen modern library editions.
I wrote my whole dissertation.
I've never seen these gorgeous dust jackets or things like this.
These are phenomenal.
He said, what are you going to do with all this?
And I thought, hmm, well, Bob, I collected.
That was in 78.
A year after that, he and I went to work.
at what we were going to do with all of it.
So I credit Bob with giving me that third quintessential insight, which was that if you're going to collect at that level, and by that time I've already described, you'll have it in your notes, I'd already gotten some really Class A material.
Well, even before I met him, I got one more set of Class A material, and that was the Phil Stone archive.
I got that right before I met Bob in 78, and right about the time I went up to meet Peterson in Waukegan.
My point, Bob said, what are you going to do with that?
And that put a challenge to me.
Well, Brodsky, what are you going to do with all this stuff now that you've got it?
You're going to hoard it?
You're going to keep it in the best stuff in the bank vaults like Peter's?
You're going to keep the rest of it at your parents' house?
You're going to keep some of it here?
What are you going to do with this stuff?
Brodsky decided he was going to collect big time, even bigger time, because Hamblin showed him there was something wonderful you could do with it.
And the first thing I did when he showed me what you could do with it, which was to exploit it, if you will, in a scholarly manner, to give it to other people.
Don't let it sit in the vault.
It can sit in the vault and you can still give it to other people if you put it in a book, if you make the book your repository.
So I could be a private individual and turn myself into a public repository, which is what I wanted to do.
I didn't want the stuff.
Yes, it had value, and I was aware of that.
No, I didn't give a shit.
Not ever.
If I had ever once collected
with the spirit that I was investing and that I was going to get some great money out of it at some point, I would have quit a long time ago.
What motivated me was that I was a scholar who was told at Washington, you don't bother to apply here for your PhD.
We won't accept you.
Well, fuck you guys.
I'll show you I can do scholarly work without you bastards.
So I've subsequently written more books than any fucker on that staff today has written.
More.
And I intend to write six more because I'm going to blow those bastards away.
I still want to blow them away.
I want to tell them that they should shut their fucking mouth instead of being so arrogant.
Don't run off poor young students who care because you're so goddamn bright.
You know, I hate that shit.
I hate it with people today.
And I really, when I find it, it's worse than being... What did you do?
What did you do with it, you?
Hoo-hoo-hoo.
Well, at Yale, now you're on another subject.
Well, I know, but... It's fine.
Don't put any of that shit out.
No, there was a period at the end of that sentence, so I figured it was... The point is, Hamblin did show me.
Hamblin showed me how important it would be if I could share it.
He said, well, that would be good.
I said, yeah, Bob, that looks like it's really good.
That was the point at which LD realized...
that it was worthwhile to keep going to pursue more people, that it was worthwhile to bring all that stuff back.
I tell you what else was fascinating.
I told you I'd bring the stories back from the people, but I'd bring the artifacts back, and quite often, though I'm not going to give you an example on the tape, I would bring from one person
a manuscript.
Well, I'll give you a simple example.
And I would bring from another family cluster some more manuscripts that sort of jigsawed into it.
It was so interesting, I could go to three different places in the country and bring back materials that, when I put them together in Farmington, made a complete manuscript, so to speak.
I can't think of one right now.
But it was fascinating.
I did it all the time.
You said you used Blotner as a road map.
Right.
Give me an example of what he would do.
Oh, I read about an exhibit...
that had been done early on in New Jersey by a man, someone named Demarest.
Demarest.
D-E-M-E-R-E-S.
A-S-T, I guess.
And I'd read about that, and it turned out that it was a bunch of... It was a bunch of manuscripts and signed books that had been put on exhibit once early on, and he'd alluded to this lady, Myrtle Ramey Demarest.
I read about her, and then I started following her up, and it turned out that she was an early high school girlfriend of Bill's, to whom he had given sketches for a yearbook, an 1813 yearbook that never got made, manuscript poems, drawings, inscribed books.
It was fabulous.
I ended up flying.
It took me two and a half years to trace her daughter.
down.
She's living in White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia.
I hunted all over New Jersey and other folks.
I went through phone books, I went through newspapers.
I couldn't find her anywhere.
I finally went back to Oxford and I started asking Ramey's there.
Did you know that this archive existed?
No.
You were just following a trail?
In Blotner I'd read that he had described a few things.
The 1913 yearbook drawings.
He'd seen them.
So they're out there?
They're not out there now because I went and found them.
Why didn't you ask Blotner?
Blotner didn't remember shit.
And furthermore, I didn't know Blotner at the time.
And furthermore, Blotner's notes were shabby.
And furthermore, he had a huge archive and he could never find anything in it.
I did subsequently start going to him and asking him for help.
And by that time, he wouldn't give me much.
It wasn't that he wouldn't give me.
I take that back.
He was helpful, and I now own his archive.
I bought his entire archive, all the letters, all everything.
I'll show it to you.
It's phenomenal.
I bought the entire archive that he used to put together the biography.
I brought it back to this collection.
It is sensational.
It's about 20,000 letters.
So I finally ended up there, and the daughter was there, and she was very impressed by me.
and for a sum of money she i got there she said well there's not really much here that mama has well mama was in an institution there she was still alive but she was in her 90s and she said i called my sister and neither she nor i wants this stuff and you're welcome to it she said i know if mama were alive
And she wasn't.
She's in a coma.
She was real ill.
She was like in a coma.
She said, we couldn't really talk to Mama, but it's really ours.
And she said, if Mama were alive, she loved Faulkner, and she saved this.
This was her collection, but we'd like you to have this.
She had spread out on the table all these manuscripts.
No, they didn't give it to me, but I bought it relatively inexpensively.
It was all the money I had.
So it wasn't expensive.
I took out another loan.
So let's talk about ethics.
I bought 10 inscribed books, including an inscribed marble font.
I bought typescripts, manuscripts, drawings.
I bought the collection for $16,000.
This was in like 1978 or nine, I don't remember.
This is in West Virginia now?
Yes, and these people I flew there at my expense, these people were absolutely thrilled to have $16,000.
Today, the one book to Myrtle Ramey, The Marvel Fawn, is about a $50,000 book.
But it wasn't for me.
I never looked at it for money.
I never did it for money.
The $16,000, the way I judged how to pay them that much, was because I had to take a loan and I was flat broke.
And that was the extent of my line of credit.
Now, I gave them as much as I could get.
I suspect if I could have borrowed 20, I would have paid her 20.
I thought the stuff even then.
What did the banks think when you went to them and said, I need some money to buy books?
That was a big help.
That was a big help to me because I couldn't go to my dad very often outright.
I would go to the bank and a man named Rolla Gordon, who was the president of the little bank in Farmington, he was so turned on by what I was doing.
Really?
That though he had no appreciation of Faulkner because he was no more literate than my dad,
Yet he's a very bright man.
What was the name of the bank?
Mercantile Bank of Farmington.
Rolla Gordon was absolutely wonderful.
He believed in me.
He didn't think I was irresponsible.
And he made loans available to me, not because he wanted his bank to loan more money, and not because he knew that I had my father, if I got in a tight mic, bail me out.
but because he believed in what I was doing.
He was an antique car collector.
He knows passion when he sees it.
Okay.
What did you secure these loans with?
Nothing.
He gave them to me always without collateral.
Geez.
He was wonderful.
He believed in me.
Frequently when I'd go to have to pay those loans back, I would pay them back out of a certain amount of money that I got each year for my trust.
I had one trust my dad set up for me.
I still have that trust today.
I take the monthly dividends and put them into my timeless press.
I don't take a salary from time.
But I would take that money and I'd pay my loans back.
Or occasionally I'd get my dad to pop.
for a book or for books.
But that was pulling teeth.
And I would get him to help me.
How about your mother?
One time, I took a bunch of antiques to acquire the Phil Stone collection.
I took a bunch of precious antiques.
Our reading, you and your wife.
Well, in that case, those were marital property.
And I took those horns, horn phonographs, a bunch of antique thought machines.
And I said, Jan, I know that these Faulkner manuscripts in the Phil Stone collection are so superb.
And so I contacted a California slot machine company.
They brought a big trailer and unloaded our house with a bunch of stuff.
Where the hell did you get these things?
Oh, I've been collecting them all over and I bought them for almost nothing.
And so I was able to put the Phil Stone collection together for almost no money.
Were they Midwestern type of things?
Wonderful antique slot machines, porn photographs, brass cash registers, Americana.
Beautiful, beautiful things.
So you sold them?
I sold a number of them.
What did your wife think?
Well, I don't remember that she was grossly unhappy.
There were a few items she didn't want me to sell.
But, you know, I think she appreciated it at that point, what I was doing.
It was real significant.
Out of that collection, that was the only time I took our antiques and acquired a cluster.
But that cluster was the most significant of all.
When I went to Birmingham, Alabama,
Emily Stone had already, by the time I got to the collection, I was Johnny-come very lately.
It had been offered all around the country.
This was in 1978.
It was right before I met Hamlet.
She had offered the collection of Virginia to Ole Miss.
To the University of Virginia.
Yes, to the University.
Which has, we should point out, a very significant bucket collection.
Mary, none of these institutions would pay her the $50,000 she was asking.
There were 15 inscribed books in the collection to Phil, including the three Snopes trilogy books that Faulkner had dedicated to Phil Stone, inscribed to the dedicatee, the personal inscriptions.
There was the 606-page hand-corrected carbon typescript of the Hamlet.
There was the typescript of the wishing tree, which he had inscribed to his godson, Philip Stone, Phil's son.
There was the most amazing cove of books and manuscripts.
What did it do to you when you see this?
Well, Emily said, oh, Mr. Krodsky, I'm so glad you're here.
I said, Emily, these things are beautiful.
I stayed with her.
I stayed two days there.
I met her daughter.
Now, you heard about it after other people had passed on?
Long after the fact Jim Merriweather had suggested that I write her.
All these other people had declined to buy it.
Is there a feeling of anxiety that, oh, shit, I might have missed it?
It's gone?
No, because I didn't even know about it until he told me about it.
He said, I think it's still there.
But what got me was that after I got there, I was amazed to learn that those people had all passed it.
I said, how much are you asking for this?
She said, sheepishly, well, we won.
My daughter and I, she was absolutely broke.
She was living penuriously.
We want $50,000.
I said, oh, Emily, that's an awful lot of money.
I thought in my mind, even at the time, Jesus.
This isn't a lot of money.
This is what it's worth, and then it's worth a lot more.
Where was this, in California?
No, it was in Birmingham, Alabama.
I'm sorry, Montgomery, Alabama.
Let's correct that.
It's Montgomery.
So I wrote her, and she wrote me back.
I wrote her again.
She wrote me back.
I flew down there.
I flew down a second time.
I met with her attorneys.
We created an agreement where, for $35,000,
which they found more than satisfactory, I would buy those materials.
That's when I knew I didn't have any more money.
I borrowed 18,000 from the bank, and I sold the antiques for about 18 or 20.
And there I got my money.
So they came down from the 50?
They came down to 35 from the 50.
And so you asked me about ethics.
I, in my appraisal, when I did my paperwork, I appraised it at about $175,000.
But by the same token, that was... But what does $175,000 mean when three different institutions, and they didn't tell you the third one, wouldn't pay for it?
No, no, because that was the market.
The market was quite clear.
There you go.
So talk to me about ethics.
I thought in my head of heads, I said, Brodsky, you're making a hell of a deal here.
Well, you did.
But others had the same opportunity.
Listen, James Lennox bought George Washington's farewell address for $2,300.
You know why he has it in the Library of Congress, doesn't?
Because they thought it was too much money.
Right.
Well, that's exactly why they have it.
Well, a bunch of assholes, aren't they?
Bunch of assholes.
Do you know why I have the Warner Brothers collection of scripts, of Faulkner's scripts?
No.
Because there were a bunch of ignorant assholes out there, not the least of whom.
The most salient of whom was the University of Virginia.
Yeah.
And when I went down there three years ago, they said, you know,
You're still persona non grata down here.
Because people around here remember you bought those Hollywood scripts.
Why didn't they buy them?
I said, you son of a bitch.
I said that to the dyke.
You know who I mean.
Come on.
Don't you put that in there.
Don't you dare put that in there.
She said, you're persona non grata.
I said, how come?
I'll give her name in a minute.
You can see I've suppressed it.
Oh, yeah.
Is it worth going down there, by the way?
Is it worth you going there?
Yeah.
Time to take a look.
Absolutely.
No, absolutely.
How do they get good special collections?
They get the greatest Faulkner in the world.
Better than yours?
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah, better, but better because Faulkner gave his manuscripts.
The book collection isn't better.
Linton Massey's book collection isn't better.
No way.
This has got to be the best book collection in the world.
OK.
And in its own way, it's also one of the singular best manuscript collections.
Virginia's the best.
It has to be.
It has all of the manuscripts that Faulkner himself did.
It wouldn't have been the best now if it were Massey's.
Mine would have been.
Mississippi has got phenomenal manuscripts because they bought the Roanoke papers from Jill.
And mine are significant.
Texas is fourth.
Why did he give them to Virginia?
Because Linton lived there, and Linton talked him into doing that.
And his daughter lived there.
belong in mississippi oh they really do but the progress had a great hate for mississippi for university of mississippi because they treated them so shabbily that wasn't going to get there but the story is interesting uh virginia doesn't like me because i bought those scripts well virginia was offered them at sixteen thousand dollars by the time i was offered them for 120 000 about 10 other dealers had had them
I wrote a whole story about this.
It's real interesting.
I forgot where in one of the magazines.
I'd like to find that.
I'll show you all that, that I really like that.
That might help in some of this stuff.
I put a lot in print.
You don't have a lot of the stuff I put in there?
I do, yeah.
Oh, yeah, so obviously I haven't had something.
I know about the big find out in... Oh, I wrote about that one, but I also... In California, you know, the day you're leaving.
And I'm going to feel free to use that stuff.
But part of that find, also, I might have talked about how these scripts went from dealer to dealer to dealer.
I think I did.
But the upshot of all that was... Nobody was collecting movie scripts.
No, they weren't.
And the Board of Trustees at Virginia wouldn't allow them to spend $16,000 on a bunch of movie scripts.
So they never really studied them.
It turned out a bunch of them were authentic.
And this is not so long ago.
No, it wasn't long ago at all.
It was about six years ago or seven.
It was stupid.
Real ignorant.
So by the time I got offered them,
For 120 grand from that wonderful dealer whose name I've also forgotten right now.
Out of where?
Out of San Francisco.
Warren Howell?
Yeah, out of Warren.
Warren and I, Warren developed a wonderful respect for me.
And that's how I ended up getting what he offered at $120,000 for about $8,000.
I got him for eight grand because he trusted me so much.
I traded him some materials that I had duplicates of, a couple of wills that were signed that he could sell.
But I had $8,000 in what I sent him.
And I said, Warren, and I'm getting ready to send another check right now to his wife.
I said, Warren, I'm going to take those scripts and make books.
The reason we couldn't sell them is because all the people who wanted to buy them wanted to buy the copyrights.
And Warner Brothers held them.
I realized that I could go to Warner Brothers.
That's a whole other story.
I went to the third in command at Warner Brothers and spent three visits with him out there, Marshall Silverman.
And from Marshall, I got the permission to have all the copyrights to publish all those scripts.
And that's what you're seeing now, the Tagalog story, Battle Tribe.
Did they ask for money?
No, they said because... That's very unlike that.
Because Warner Brothers said, because you're you, and we know your reputation, and we know that you won't merchandise these, that you will make scholarly projects out of these, we give them to you.
But that's very un-Hollywood.
Of course it was, and they did it.
Hollywood is really the engine that drives...
I'm not bending my arm when I tell you that they did it out of respect for my work.
Marshall told me that.
He said, you are so unique.
He said, I will make this available to you, all these scripts.
And let me tell you something.
In turn, MGM gave me the same rights for virtually no money.
Because they respected my work.
My feeling is buy the stuff and deal with the copyright problem later.
Well, let me tell you what happened.
No dealer, no collector would buy the materials from any of the dealers.
So Warren ended up with it thinking he finally had a buyer who was going to get Warner Brothers to let them have the copyrights.
It fell through.
That's when I started with Warner Brothers.
He said, here's the two people I've worked with.
If you can do anything, fine.
He said, I want you to have these manuscripts.
Who said?
Warren said to me.
He said... But why did he come to you after he went to these other people?
I went to him.
I found out they were there.
He said he'd been turned down by a couple of people.
He had.
And so by the time I came to him, I was also Johnny Cook very lately.
How come Warren Hale didn't give you a call?
Didn't give me a what?
A call and say, I got this stuff.
I don't know why he didn't, but he did.
Maybe he was trying to make a big score.
He was, $120,000.
He bought them for $60,000 from Howard, Peter Howard.
That's another reason why Peter is unlikely.
Peter sold them on to Warren.
Peter bought them for $30,000.
Peter sold them to Howard, to the guy you just told me, Warren, for $60,000.
Warren put them up for sale for $120,000.
They'd started out of Virginia at $16,000.
They'd gone through a few hands until they got to Peter at $30,000.
From Peter at $30,000 to Warren at $60,000.
What did you pay?
I paid $8,000.
And not one penny of it was cash.
Well, in other words, Warren took a bath?
Warren took a huge bath because he took great respect for me, and he'd never taken a bath.
He said, let me tell you something.
It sounds to me like he took a $22,000 bath.
He did.
He took more than that.
He took about that.
He took a $22,000 bath.
That's right.
And he did it.
He said, you only paid $8,000 for them?
And I didn't pay one piece of it in cash at that time.
And they were things that I computed that I had put out in cash for various things I traded in.
$8,000.
But what he liked about me, Nick, and this is why I got them like that.
He could have held them forever.
He didn't need the money.
I said, you know what I'm going to do?
I'm going to publish these things.
I said, I'm going to go get them.
They're copyrights.
And he said, well, I hope you do.
Here they are.
I bought them from him with no copyrights.
He said, but I'll put in my good word.
I said, I think I can get them.
I went out to California, made the contacts.
I went out there.
I got the permissions.
I started publishing.
I said, Warren, if I ever get them published, I will give you and your wife the royalties.
I'm not doing it for the royalties. I said I'll set it up so that you get a certain percentage and Warren's brother can have a certain percentage. Each ten percent. I have sent checks to his wife. He died. She is so appreciative she said oh Mr. Brodsky I never dreamed of what you said you'd do. It wasn't even part of a written agreement. I said Warren if you do this with me I promise you there is no written agreement. I said I promise you that I will send whatever royalties I can set up
Your wife will get them or you'll get them.
And maybe eventually it'll pay back some of your loss.
She is still receiving royalties annually for those books.
And that just pleases me no end.
Because I didn't want him to take a bath.
Why wouldn't he sell it to Virginia for $8,000?
Those bastards wouldn't have done anything in a way.
You know what appealed to him?
What appealed to him was that I would make that attempt to try to keep my word good with him, and that I would publish them.
He loved that notion that I would turn them into scholarship.
Warren loved that.
Now that's how I got those.
How do you get stuff?
Why didn't Peterson get stuff?
He didn't know how to appeal to the right instincts and the people who had it.
When I went to get the Cummins collection,
I got in.
That's a whole other tale that I'm not going to tell you right now because I'm starting to exhaust myself.
Maybe I'll tell you on the way home.
When this tape runs out in about 30 seconds, we're going to take a break.
How do you get stuff from people?
Well, you have to appeal to their needs.
And their needs were infrequently monetary.
They were partially monetary.
There were all kinds of needs.
In the case of Bill Cummins, it was more an emotional need.
And I'll explain that to you at another time.
What's the name of this Cummins person?
Doe.
D-O.
That's her name.
Her name is Dorothy B. Cummins.
She's the wife of Sachs Cummins, Faulkner's editor at Random House, from 36 to 58.
Dorothy B. C-U-M-M-I-N-G-S, right?
No.
C-U-M-M-I-N-S.
Cummins.
Okay.
Wow.
We're doing pretty good.
Not a lot of stuff.
Yeah.
We ought to take a break if I haven't.
If I haven't run over another one, I'm going to be a little late here, but we're fine.
You're getting the best out of me now.
That's good.
What I'm going to do, I need to stop by the printing office for one minute here.
That's right.
There's a pulling driving from Farmington to Mississippi Vistas, you're saying.
Over to this highway and down to Oxford.
This is corn now.
Let me tell you why I'm glad I drove you to Farmington.
You've got to share with me now something, just as friends.
Let's be friends.
Who I was.
I wasn't a southerner.
It's real strange, another part of the hotel.
I was always feeling somewhat outsider there.
It scared me.
It always scared me in the south.
Even to this day, a little bit.
There was always that old lingering shit.
When you and I were growing up, we're probably about the same age.
You know how the South was so scary?
Oh, yeah.
You know all that stuff.
We all watched To Kill a Mockingbird, you know, in the 1960s.
How old are you?
I'm 47.
Well, we're about right now.
OK, so we know how scary the South was.
It had an image of being scary.
Well, I never lost those fears completely.
So a lot of the poems are paranoid.
I want you to read my Mississippi Vistas from start to finish.
I'm very proud of it.
It will show you the character who goes quite often from Farmington over the little highway you thought was beautiful, 32, down this stretch.
You'll see all my perceptions in that book, whether I was looking at cows.